So next we're going to walk through the process of adding tags for a CDK stack.
Now if you don't have familiarity with tags,
and to be honest,
I've worked with people who have spent years in AWS
and have never worked with tags, but tags are just customer‑defined metadata,
and you can use it for a lot of different things with
everything from cost allocation,
which is really the example we're going to be using
here within this particular use case.
But you also can use it for resource grouping,
for access control, so tags can work directly with IAM,
for a lot of services, not all services.
Some of them don't support it, but for a lot of them, you can.
You also can use it for automation and for operations support.
So as an example within Systems Manager,
you can have it take action on all EC2 instances that have a specific tag.
So there really are almost endless ways that you can use tags within AWS,
and the CDK provides this ability for us to add in tags to multiple resources.
So here within this demo,
we're first going to be applying tags to our custom CDK stack.
So we're going to look to apply it to everything as a whole.
But then we're also going to look at how we can apply tags for specific
modules within our CDK stack because in most cases we'll want to have
some division beyond just the application.
And once we have this in place,
we're going to deploy and verify the tags that we've
added within our CDK application.
So let's dive in.
So I'm here within VS Code, and I have my stack pulled up,
and I want to go through the process here of adding in the tags as mentioned.
Now I want to start off with a couple of tags that will apply to everything.
So to do this, I'm not going to stay here within my stack.
I'm going to go up in my BIN directory to my typescript‑cdk.ts file.
Now here you can see that this is where we actually define our stack,
and we attach it to our application.
And I'm going to go ahead and change one thing on this.
I'm going to go ahead and give this a variable name,
and now we're going to utilize the tags feature that is a part of the CDK core.
So I'm going to type in Tags, and I can see here if I now hit Enter,
we're going to have that imported for us.
And as you can see, that is from the aws‑cdk/core package.
Then I'm going to type in of.
Now what this is going to allow us to do is it's going
to allow us to specify a construct.
And if you remember, a stack here is also a type of construct.
So we're going to say Tags.of(stack),
and then we're going to specify the tag that we want to add.
So we'll say here add, and then we need to pass in a key and a value.
So in this case, I'm going to have a key here be App,
and the value is going to be DocumentManagement.
Now the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to copy this line,
and we'll just paste it below, and we'll call this Environment.
And then we'll change this to be Development.
So now we've added in these two tags.
Now I want to add in a third tag.
And here I want this to apply just to the networking components within my stack.
So we're going to call this module, and we're going to say networking.
Now here we could utilize some of the additional properties that we
can pass in when we're tagging our resources.
So here we have one that is includeResourceTypes,
and this allows us to pass in on array of resource types.
And so if you happen to know here the cloud formation type
for the different types of resources, you could pass them in here,
and what it would do is it would look over all of
the resources within the stack,
and if they're identifier types or equal to what you pass in here,
then it will tag them.
And if it doesn't, it won't.
Now you also can do the opposite.
We can go through and we can say we want to exclude resource types.
So if you know, for example,
that we want to tag everything except for our S3 bucket,
we could place the identifier for the S3 bucket in here.
However, there's actually an easier way to accomplish this.
So in this case,
I'm going to go through and just delete all of this and we're
going to navigate now over into our stack file.
So I'm here within my stack file,
and here I'm going to give our networking stack a variable name.
And what I'm going to do here is we're going to go
through and do just what we did previously.
We're going to say Tags.of, and then we'll pass in our networkingStack.
And then we're going to do add.
Now because our networkingStack is a kind of construct,
we can choose to add tags just to the resources that are
included within this particular stack.
So here we'll be able to go in and specify Module,
and then we'll be able to go in a specify Networking.
Now we don't need to at this point go in and use any of the
include or exclude because we're choosing to change the scope
that we're applying the tags on.
This way is generally easier.
You certainly can use the others,
but you have to know the specific CloudFormation
identifiers for each of the types you're using.
But if you're not familiar with those,
you can go in and see the list of those within your
CloudFormation console in the browser.
So now I'm going to go ahead and save this.
And now I'm going to go over to the terminal.
From here within the terminal,
I'm now going to go in and I'm going to type cdk and diff.
And this will allow us to see the changes that
we've implemented with these tags.
And there's a long list here.
We'll just look at the bottom one.
We can see here that we are adding in additional
tags that weren't there previously, including our App,
Environment, and Module tags.
So now that we have this in place, I'm going to go ahead and run cdk deploy.
Now that we've deployed those changes, I'm now going to go over to the console.
So here within the console,
I'm going to navigate under Resource Groups to Tag Editor.
Now, within here, I'm going to be sure that the us‑east‑1 region is selected,
which it is, and then I'm going to have it select all resource types.
And now I'm going to go in and say I want to find
everything that has a module tag, irrespective of what the value of that tag is.
And now I'm going to hit Search resources.
And we can see here that it returns 12 different resources.
So with one line in our code,
we have been able to specify tags for all of the different resources that are created with our L2 VPC construct.